.I 1
.W
correlation between maternal and fetal plasma levels of glucose and free
fatty acids .                                                           
  correlation coefficients have been determined between the levels of   
glucose and ffa in maternal and fetal plasma collected at delivery .    
significant correlations were obtained between the maternal and fetal   
glucose levels and the maternal and fetal ffa levels . from the size of 
the correlation coefficients and the slopes of regression lines it      
appears that the fetal plasma glucose level at delivery is very strongly
dependent upon the maternal level whereas the fetal ffa level at        
delivery is only slightly dependent upon the maternal level .           
.I 2
.W
changes of the nucleic acid and phospholipid levels of the livers in the
course of fetal and postnatal development .                             
  we have followed the evolution of dna, rna and pl in the livers of rat
foeti removed between the fifteenth and the twenty-first day of         
gestation and of young rats newly-born or at weaning . we can observe   
the following facts..                                                   
  1. dna concentration is 1100 ug p on the 15th day, it decreases from  
the 19th day until it reaches a value of 280 ug 5 days after weaning .  
  2. rna concentration is 1400 ug p on the 15th day and decreases to 820
during the same period .                                                
  3. pl concentration is low on the 15th day and during foetal life (700
ug) and increases abruptly at birth .                                   
  4. the ratios rna cyto/dna and pl cyto/dna increase regularly from the
18th day of foetal life .                                               
  5. nuclear rna and pl contents are very high throughout the           
development .                                                           
  6. these results enable us to characterize three stages in the        
development of the rat liver.. - from the 15th day to the 18th day of   
foetal life.. stage of growth through hyperplasia without hypertrophy,  
  - from the 19th day of foetal life to the 3rd day of post-natal life,.
stage of cellular reorganisation,                                       
  - after the 3rd day of post-natal life.. stage of growth through      
hyperplasia and hypertrophy .                                           
.I 3
.W
surfactant in fetal lamb tracheal fluid .                               
  lambs delivered by cesarean section with intact fetal circulation have
a fluid filling the trachea . analysis revealed that this fluid         
contained material high in surface activity in lambs delivered near     
term, but less surface activity in premature lambs .                    
  administration of 10 per cent oxygen to the ewe for 1 hour prior to   
delivery did not alter the surfactant properties of the fetal tracheal  
fluid .                                                                 
  two analyses of the fetal tracheal fluid revealed it to contain 146   
and 198 mg. of lipid per 100 ml., 30 to 40 per cent of which was        
phospholipid, part of the active component of surfactant .              
  the investigations reported here offer a model for further research   
into possible intrauterine factors in the pathogenesis of hyaline       
membrane disease .                                                      
.I 4
.W
placental and cord blood lipids.. comparison in a set of double ovum    
twins, a stillborn and a live-born .                                    
  1. determinations of phospholipid, total and free cholesterol,        
triglyceride and nefa have been made on placental tissue and cord blood 
in a set of double ovum twins, one stillborn and one live-born .        
  2. similarities occurred in all fractions studied except the cord     
blood triglyceride and nefa levels .                                    
  3. the serum of the stillborn infant contained one-third as much      
triglyceride and 21/2 times as much nefa as did the live-born infant .  
  4. the phospholipid content and the total lipid content of the        
stillbirth placenta were the highest studied in this laboratory which   
includes determinations on 26 live births .                             
  5. the suggestion is made that increased lipoprotein lipase activity  
in the cord blood may accompany intrauterine fetal death .              
.I 5
.W
free fatty acid concentration in maternal plasma and fetal body fat     
content .                                                               
  subcutaneous injection of 200 u.s.p. units of heparin into female     
sprague-dawley rats produced large and sustained elevations of plasma   
free fatty acids but no significant change in blood glucose . a group of
pregnant rats received such injections of heparin 3 times daily         
throughout pregnancy . the fetuses from mothers of this group, at 191/2 
and 211/2 days of gestation, had significantly more body fat than the   
fetuses from uninjected mothers . the hypothesis is presented that the  
maternal free fatty acid concentration in part determines fetal fat     
accumulation . it is proposed that the body composition changes noted in
babies of mothers with diabetes might thus be ascribed to abnormally    
high maternal plasma free fatty acid concentrations .                   
